hi everyone this is a full
squat and a reverse nordic curl
oh
oh i still need to work on that last
part but wouldn't
knee strength mobility and power all
wrapped in one
be awesome for everybody to have well
that's what this video is for if you
want to learn how to do that move we're
going to start with the basics
this video is going to have two parts
the first part i'm going to show you all
the different variations and stuff to
build you up there
and the second part is i'm actually
gonna bring you through a workout
so here's the first part
so that movement is broken down into two
different movements combined it's a full
squat
and a reverse nordic curl so both
require
different feels to it so the easiest way
to train for
an advanced movement that's really
difficult is just to simplify it
and we can simplify it by lessening the
range of motion
and i'll show you how by stacking
pillows up just like this
and using a wall for balance you just
step
a little bit away from it make sure your
feet are parallel by the way
because if your toes are inward and your
knees are bending that's not healthy
and if your toes are outward that's
probably even worse for your knees so
make sure your toes are pointed directly
towards where you're doing it so hands
on the wall
all you're doing is just bending forward
coming up onto your toes
and bringing your knees past your toes
to tap the highest part of the pillow
so this is a smaller range of motion and
this is
perfect for building up that strength
that you need in your patella right here
which is your kneecap is getting added
pressure on it
so if you have any meniscus injuries or
something like that be
very very very wary of what you do
you want to avoid pain at all costs
but you do want to fix it right motion
is
lotion so get it moving and work it out
but be very careful and avoid pain
i know it's a difficult dance but you do
got to do it
so with the added pressure on the
patellar tendon
and the kneecap it's it's used to
build up strength there and your quads
so now that we simplified it all you do
is just
boom and now it's more challenging and
you can get your knees even further over
your toes
and you can also practice balancing with
it
now your upper body is going to want to
bend forward while you do it
but what you're going to do is stay
really tall keep your ribs in
your shoulders are wide and down arms to
the side
and then you can press your arms back as
you do it but make sure your back is
flat and go up just like that so that's
the squat
and then of course you can remove all
the pillows and make it as challenging
for yourself
as possible but don't injure yourself if
you feel
any pain you've already gone too far and
do not do that
the second movement is obviously the
reverse nordic curl
now how do we simplify something like
that
well i'll show you check this out
alright so in order to simplify this
movement
you are going to need to have your knees
on the ground and if this is painful for
you
you're going to want to have some
cushion like pillows blankets or
anything like that
the theme of this video is avoid pain
any pain in your knees is bad pain we
don't want that
we want to stress the tendons by giving
them pressure and stuff to work through
we don't want any pain so how we
simplify that reverse nordic curl
instead of immediately going all the way
down through the range of motion what
you're going to do
is sit back you can lean forward
and then just lift yourself up just like
that
remember to keep your back flat and you
lift yourself
up now you'll feel it it's quite
different
and the reason why it's different from
the squat is because
instead of just your knees bending
forward your knees are at full extension
right here they're actually
actively stretching now you can also
challenge yourself by bringing your body
instead of forward you're bringing your
body back like this
so just like this it's a little bit more
challenging and the further back you go
the more challenging it gets
now this part might seem a little
counterintuitive
but you also need ankle mobility so
here's my favorite stretch for that
so all you do is instead of standing up
tall
you're just going to go down into a deep
squat now not a lot of people can hold
this so what you're going to do is lean
forward onto your toes
and then instead of just staying right
here you're going to actually
flex your heels toward the ground and
then
let your body weight just press your
feet down
now be aware that you don't want your
feet
like this collapsing inward toward each
other
you don't like if you look at this foot
right here see how it can collapse in
that the knee goes a different way than
the toes
that's bad you want the knees to go the
same exact direction as the toes the
entire time
just like this this is your deep squat
and you can also
actively practice by holding your deep
squat and flexing your shin muscles
right here
those are called your tibialis muscles
those are super super
super super valuable alright
now for the part everybody's been
waiting for the workout
let's go here we are make sure you stick
to the variation that you feel
comfortable with
and that doesn't hurt your knees i
showed you quite a few of them
so just choose the one that works best
for you
so we're gonna start with the
squat
now that you have a wall and your
pillows ready you're gonna
stand up as tall as you can like there's
a string pulling your head up as tall as
you can
make sure your ribs aren't sticking out
that they're pulled in and your
shoulders are
back and in line just like this and your
toes are pointed forward
hand on the wall here we go squat
you're just gonna bend forward
bring your heels up and then bend back
that's one
we're gonna do ten bend forward and
back and bend
and back great job we're on number four
and back number five this is kind of
like a warm up it's just super small
six and seven
just remember to breathe normally eight
and nine and
ten great job so that was the warm up i
hope you started with an
easy one because now we're going to
change it to a more difficult setting
but remember avoid pain here we go
dipping down this is number one
dipping down two keep the back straight
this is up number three here we go
number four and
five let me know if you make it through
this whole workout
six and seven
eight last two nine
and ten great job now you're going to
move
away from the pillows and this time
you're just going to be doing a
balancing act
no wall nothing so just stand
and now you're going to let your knees
go over your toes just enough
so that your heels can stay on the
ground
flex your shins a little bit so that
your toes come even
closer just like this and now
lean forward so that you're balancing
right here just hold this balancing
position
let wobbles happen hold here we go
and five four three
two one and straighten the legs
all the way out great job now let's move
on
to the reverse nordic curl now go ahead
get onto your knees if you need to go
ahead and put your knees on top of the
pillow
just like this whatever feels best for
you i'm going to do it
on the ground just like this so
now that your knees are on the ground
and swear your feet
go ahead and lean forward just to start
and now you're going to squeeze yourself
up and press
make sure your back isn't sticking out
like this you want to pull your pelvis
under you so that you're in line and
really really tall
make sure those hip flexors are
stretching at the top and bend down
and lift lower
and lift great job just keep that air
flowing as you low down
and lift pause right here
now just lean back a little bit only to
where you can control it just a little
distance holding for ten
nine ease up if you have to seven
six five four
three two one
and lower yourself all the way down
great job
we have just one more left you ready
make sure your back isn't arched
stay like this and if you're crunching
like this
you want to pull yourself out of your
low back so that you're nice and tall
here we go
this time instead of leaning forward or
staying neutral try and lean back just a
little bit
here we go lifting up one we're only
doing five
and lower and two
and three
and number four last one and
five and lower down
great job now you're gonna need a wall
and i'm gonna stretch you out real quick
so let's do that
all right great job so now that we've
done the workout you're just going to
going to want to stretch everything out
now remember stretching is most
effective
after you do a workout because your
muscles are warm so go ahead and stand
up
just lean against the wall with one hand
and everybody knows this stretch
we all learned it in middle school or
even kindergarten i don't know when
but make sure you're as tall as you
possibly can
make sure your foot's not forward like
this that you're actually pulling it
back behind you
but you also don't want your back
arching you want to keep it
in that neutral position so that you're
all the way in
alignment just like that and switch
sides
bring the other one up again all the
same cues apply right here
make sure your foot's not forward and
also make sure your back is not arching
behind you
keep it in control just pulling that
heel towards your glute
and make sure you maintain your posture
and foot down great job now we're going
to do these hip flexors real quick
so what you're going to do is bring a
foot forward and stretch your other foot
all the way behind you
almost like you're going to run 100
meter dash
or something like that this is called a
runner's lunge that's why i said that
basically keep your knee off the ground
keep your foot right here your knee is
right over your ankle
and your other foot in the back is
staying with your toes on the ground and
your knee is lifted up holding this
and now lower the knee down to the
ground and your toe
you're pointing it out behind you and
it's down on the floor
and you're holding this position you
should feel this in your hip flexor now
right here
just breathe deeply let the oxygen flow
in through the nose and then you breathe
out through the mouth the more oxygen
the better
and switching sides go ahead and
straighten the other leg all the way out
but keep the knee off of the ground to
start
make sure your knee is right over your
ankle your toes are on the floor
your knee is lifted up we're in our
runner's lunge position
make sure you're actively straightening
that leg out behind you
and it's also pretty common to have one
side tighter than the other
that's okay don't worry about it don't
focus on it harder
it'll catch up with the other side just
give it time and consistency
now drop the knee down and point out the
toes behind you
and hold right here you should feel this
in your hip flexor
if you didn't feel it on the other side
you're going to want to do it again but
press your pelvis a little lower
into it but just hold where you feel
comfortable where you feel that stretch
you don't want to go into any pain just
go where you feel that slight bit of
tension
great job lift up and now
this is a very important part you're
going to want to stretch back behind
your
legs just like this behind your knees so
how you can do that
instead of trying to touch your toes or
even touching your toes what you're
going to do
is stand all the way tall let's see if i
can be in frame
you can also lean up against the wall
make sure your toes are away from the
wall
get good posture in the upper body and
then lean
forward to wherever you can so you can
feel that hamstring stretching
but keep your back flat don't let it
round forward
so you might be right here you might be
a little further forward
or you might be somewhere where i can go
right here just hold and breathe
keep the back flat don't round it just
keep it flat
you should feel it right behind your
knees
your calves should be slightly
stretching but mostly your hamstrings
breathing deeply
and now lift yourself up all the way
tall and jiggle those legs out
even though that was a short little
simple workout you should feel kind of
like a little bit like jelly
which is a good thing great job
everybody
next video i'll probably teach you a
little bit more about how to get into
the splits and how to safely train for
it
well if you're looking forward to that
go ahead and like and subscribe
leave a comment let me know how this
whole youtube thing is going this is my
first video
welcome to the channel if you're from
tiktok instagram
uh but if this is just the algorithm
sending you welcome as well
all right you guys have a good one see
ya